in this lesson,
we are going to define variable and run those variables.
So this is a good exercise where you will learn how you could define variables at the
beginning of the script.
So anywhere you would need to use those variables anywhere in the script,
middle or the end,
you could just simply run that container that very so what exactly a variable is.
So let's look at this.
So look,
it's,
um list that I have Now.
You see,
I have defined Ah,
variable for P.
I have put a pwd for l is just simply a less w is for who am I d for date and see for Cal
So these are the variables.
The variables are the first digits pl w d.
C and the commands that that variable the commands that inside of those variables,
I would say,
are the ones on the right hand side.
So this is how we're going to create a new script by having those variable defined at the
beginning.
So I'm gonna log into my machine.
I believe I already have logged in.
So,
um,
what I'm gonna do just for just for fun just for exercise or just for practice.
I'm gonna go one step back and I'm gonna,
um,
create a new directory called M K D I R.
And I'm gonna call it my scripts.
So it's just to tell you how you could differentiate from one director to another.
But anyway,
which ever direct to you Make sure there are There's Pacific directory for every script.
Don't just put it in your home director or anywhere else.
It's not a good product.
Um,
so I have the structure created my script and,
um,
I am going to create a new script.
I'm gonna call it,
Let's say,
ah,
variable uh,
test Mr.
And the first thing,
what do you have to do is been bash,
And then you have to define the comments,
the author description.
The data was creating all that stuff.
I'm not gonna take a lot of your time to go into defining every single one off it,
So I'm just gonna from now on,
I'm just gonna define the the shell,
which is the mandatory thing.
So and then I'm gonna go straight to,
um,
running script,
that writing the actual so anyway,
because I do know the time is valuable for everybody,
but I am very hopeful that you guys do follow the standard that I have.
So,
um,
first thing that is I'm gonna do is come put a comment here,
miss it.
Define very okay.
And those variables are 1st 1 is P equal.
PW 2nd 1 l and Ellis.
W is for who am I?
But you know what?
Actually,
there is a command called w and Lennox,
so I'm just gonna put,
um um who am I?
Just w i b.
That would be Who am I date for?
D And see now,
since the sea it is a calendar and that I want the 2018 calendar,
so it has a space in the middle,
so I have to put that in cold.
Single coach Caliphate.
Cynical doesn't work in your environment.
Double coat.
That's fine.
Okay,
so now you're variable defiance.
No.
What do you do is you could just simply say echo.
Um run variables.
Tasks.
Back again.
Now I'm gonna run command.
Sorry.
I'm gonna run the variable p to define the variable to run it or to get executed,
you have to start with dollar piece of this way.
The operating system or the shell would know that you want to run their very okay.
Perfect.
Next.
Very well.
I wanna run.
Is l 3rd 1 is W I 4th 1 as d and one C.
It's just that simple.
Save it.
Okay,
now let's give it up.
Missions.
See there.
That's very for one more time,
if you see.
Ah,
the reason I came in I want to see if it has all the variables in Hey,
looks good to me.
It's tried to run is to test a script.
Always run it variable.
Okay,
so we do have some kind of error messages.
Perfect.
That is fine.
Because,
as we learned,
we wanted to see where those are messages are.
And how can we troubleshoot?
As you see,
the first message that is giving us that there is in Line eight is unexpected.
End of file while looking for matching coat or single course.
So let's go to line eight variable to go to line eight.
It's just they and it's a Ah,
see what I happen.
I put single code here,
and I put double coat here.
Okay.
All right,
So one problem.
It's fixed.
Run it again.
Okay,
I think it ran.
Find this time.
Hopefully,
yes.
Run variable tests and was variable as PWD is this.
The file is variable inside of that directory,
there's user,
which is a variable date and the calendar.
So that's how it was coming up.
And you notice when I ran the command earlier test variable.
When it had a problem,
it gave me error messages on to line.
Do you know why?
Because first line is eight,
which had that double coat on one side and single quote one side.
So that'd be a no,
that was era.
But why?
We were getting,
um,
error on line 17.
Think of it.
Let's check y v work.
I know,
but I wanted to show you exactly why.
So let's go to the file.
And now this time,
type seven.
Uh,
you know why?
I'm sure.
Now you know why?
Because in 98 the defined variable was this which had a problem.
And in line 17 when it came down to run that variable,
it says,
Hey,
I can't run their variable.
So that's why it gave us error messages in to line.
Okay,
so anyway,
So that's how you define variables?
Um,
going forward,
I will be using scripts.
I will be writing scripts in,
Ah,
different directories.
Um,
I could be writing in my my script.
I could be writing in just the script director,
but anyway,
um,
you could just follow just one director if you want to.
Or you could just do different directory depending on how you want to structure your script
.
Ing's skills and how do you want to organize?